# Integration of Elevation into the Active Walker Model with Graphical Satellite Input
## Michal Nahlik, Dr. Peter Brommer


Complex pedestrian walking behaviour can be modelled using an agent based active matter
representation, with each of the agent representing a walker following predefined laws of motion.
Such an approach is taken with the *Active Walker Model* to computationally simulate the
generation of complex detour path systems, created by non-communicative collective trampling
of soft ground. The project outlined in this dissertation combines the Active Walker Model
on a flat surface with consideration for changing elevation, forbidding the walkers to climb
directly up or down a slope that is too steep for a human pedestrian. The project also consists
of potential operation of the developed software in assistance of landscape development of
paths in mountainous regions, with a user-friendly interface of importing mapped elevation
values of the geographical area of interest using Google Maps API.

The simulation is developed in Python with a graphically visual output displaying the
path generated by footsteps of 100 simulated walkers, and tested for robustness in different
conditions. The generated shapes are able to efficiently recreate repeating patterns seen
real-life examples of mountain trails on Mount Fuji and Snowdon. Most notably, a pattern of a
zigzag triangular waveform of decreasing amplitude is identified, which adheres to the expected
formation, however the decreasing amplitude is also identified to be a result of a geometrical
phenomenon in conjunction with the direction towards the destination and the trail potential
attractiveness. Furthermore, the product testing identifies inherent limitations of the *Active
Walker Model* and the elevation input interface, in modelling pedestrian paths on elevated
surfaces. Namely, the insufficient consideration for extraneous variables of high influence on
human pedestrian behaviour such as obstructing vegetation or unfavourable ground conditions,
which are might be a subject for further potential research.
